index.md, before:

# Introduction

Hello there, my name is Paul Anzel! I'm a Data Scientist currently employed with [H-E-B](https://www.heb.com/), building product recommendation systems and handling general data-science dev-ops work. Before that, I worked at [Metromile](https://www.metromile.com/), where I use telematics data to detect vehicle crashes and evaluate potential insurance fraud, and [Wiser](https://www.wiser.com/), doing price-demand estimation.

I did doctoral research (left ABD) in Applied Physics at Caltech with [Chiara Daraio](http://daraio.caltech.edu/) where I worked on developing a new type of acoustic imaging system for non-destructive evaluation. During my graduate research I received a NASA Space Technology Research Fellowship and a M.S. in Applied Physics. I have a B.S. and B.A. in Chemical Physics and Mathematics (respectively) from Rice University.

Outside of work I spend much of my time advocating for building housing. I now volunteer with [San Antonio Neighbors For Everyone](https://www.sane-satx.org/), and before that helped out with [East Bay For Everyone](https://eastbayforeveryone.org/). I am an instructor with [Software Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/). I managed Caltech's [bicycle repair cooperative](https://caltechbikelab.blogspot.com/) for three years, play accordion and piano, and have started getting into ham radio.

I live with my lovely wife Rose, young son Isaac, and fussy cat Coltrane.

# Some projects

## [Statistics Study Group Notes](https://github.com/anzelpwj/Stats-week)

During my time at Wiser, I started a journal club to go over some techniques I wanted to learn more about, and to teach some of the other analysts some basic techniques (e.g. what a Fourier transform is). Upon moving to Metromile, I was pleased to see that they had an active study group there. Here is a collection of iPython notebooks where I go through implementing various algorithms myself and demonstrate their use.

Some ones I'm particularly proud of:
- [The Hilbert and Hilbert-Huang Transform](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/Hilbert_Transform.ipynb)
- [HOT-SAX for discord discovery](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/HOT_SAX.ipynb)
- [Robust outlier detection techniques](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/Grubbs_and_Qtest.ipynb)

## [The Science(?) of Documentation, WriteTheDocs 2017](https://github.com/anzelpwj/writethedocs2017)

Inspired by [Greg Wilson's commentary](http://third-bit.com/talks/greatest-hits/#/) that the state of software-development research is thin and poorly distributed on the ground, I did some investigation on my own looking into what research there is regarding software documentation. Long-story-short, there's precious little. I attended the WTD conference to see if I could find any more, and ended up giving a lightning talk about how little we know and how to assess relevant scientific evidence.

## [Beer analysis](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Beer_server/blob/master/Beer_analysis_v2.ipynb)
I had some friends in grad school with whom I'd grab a Friday afternoon beer, and eventually I started rating the different beers we'd try. Many years and beers later, I've learned some interesting things about the beers I like.

## [A Moveable Feast Kinetic Sculpture](http://www.danielbusby.com/a-moveable-feast/)

An eight-person pedal-powered dining table. Project led by Daniel Busby, I provided many bicycle parts, ergonomic advice, and plenty of drilling and grinding.

## [Domestic Violence Program mapping](https://github.com/anzelpwj/DV_program_analysis)

Mapping and basic analysis of domestic violence programs in the Los Angeles area completed on request of a colleague.

Commit message:

Portfolio update: MD, pybadge, PP bingo

index.md, after:

# Paul Anzel's Portfolio

## Introduction

Hello there, my name is Paul Anzel! I'm a Data Scientist currently employed with [H-E-B](https://www.heb.com/), building product recommendation systems and handling general data-science dev-ops work. Before that, I worked at [Metromile](https://www.metromile.com/), where I use telematics data to detect vehicle crashes and evaluate potential insurance fraud, and [Wiser](https://www.wiser.com/), doing price-demand estimation.

I did doctoral research (left ABD) in Applied Physics at Caltech with [Chiara Daraio](http://daraio.caltech.edu/) where I worked on developing a new type of acoustic imaging system for non-destructive evaluation. During my graduate research I received a NASA Space Technology Research Fellowship and a M.S. in Applied Physics. I have a B.S. and B.A. in Chemical Physics and Mathematics (respectively) from Rice University.

Outside of work I spend much of my time advocating for building housing. I now volunteer with [San Antonio Neighbors For Everyone](https://www.sane-satx.org/), and before that helped out with [East Bay For Everyone](https://eastbayforeveryone.org/). I am an instructor with [Software Carpentry](https://software-carpentry.org/). I managed Caltech's [bicycle repair cooperative](https://caltechbikelab.blogspot.com/) for three years, play accordion and piano, and have started getting into ham radio.

I live with my lovely wife Rose, young son Isaac, and fussy cat Coltrane.

## Some projects

### [Statistics Study Group Notes](https://github.com/anzelpwj/Stats-week)

During my time at Wiser, I started a journal club to go over some techniques I wanted to learn more about, and to teach some of the other analysts some basic techniques (e.g. what a Fourier transform is). Upon moving to Metromile, I was pleased to see that they had an active study group there. Here is a collection of iPython notebooks where I go through implementing various algorithms myself and demonstrate their use.

Some ones I'm particularly proud of:

- [The Hilbert and Hilbert-Huang Transform](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/Hilbert_Transform.ipynb)
- [HOT-SAX for discord discovery](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/HOT_SAX.ipynb)
- [Robust outlier detection techniques](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Stats-week/blob/master/Grubbs_and_Qtest.ipynb)

### [The Science(?) of Documentation, WriteTheDocs 2017](https://github.com/anzelpwj/writethedocs2017)

Inspired by [Greg Wilson's commentary](http://third-bit.com/talks/greatest-hits/#/) that the state of software-development research is thin and poorly distributed on the ground, I did some investigation on my own looking into what research there is regarding software documentation. Long-story-short, there's precious little. I attended the WTD conference to see if I could find any more, and ended up giving a lightning talk about how little we know and how to assess relevant scientific evidence.

### [Beer analysis](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/anzelpwj/Beer_server/blob/master/Beer_analysis_v2.ipynb)

I had some friends in grad school with whom I'd grab a Friday afternoon beer, and eventually I started rating the different beers we'd try. Many years and beers later, I've learned some interesting things about the beers I like.

### [A Moveable Feast Kinetic Sculpture](http://www.danielbusby.com/a-moveable-feast/)

An eight-person pedal-powered dining table. Project led by Daniel Busby, I provided many bicycle parts, ergonomic advice, and plenty of drilling and grinding.

### [PyBadge conference badge](https://github.com/anzelpwj/basic_pybadge_project)

Some code for an Adafruit PyBadge to work as a fun name badge for conferences. Has some blinkenlights for good measure.

### [Pantsuit Politics bingo card](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/anzelpwj/pantsuit_politics_bingo/master?filepath=card_maker.ipynb)

Little bingo card generator based off of [this tweet](https://twitter.com/LouRovegno/status/1169967063559020544) for one of my favorite podcasts. Biggest challenge was finding a good way to get interactive widgets to work online. I initially tried to get this operational with Pyodide ([link](https://alpha.iodide.io/notebooks/3190/)) but came to the conclusion that Pyodide wasn't ready for me to use. Current version hosted in [Binder](https://mybinder.org/v2/gh/anzelpwj/pantsuit_politics_bingo/master?filepath=card_maker.ipynb).

### [Domestic Violence Program mapping](https://github.com/anzelpwj/DV_program_analysis)

Mapping and basic analysis of domestic violence programs in the Los Angeles area completed on request of a colleague.
